##Homework 4

For this assignment, I chose to use an abstract base class because all of the implementations that I was creating had five methods that would be common to all of them. All three of the implementations also would have a constructor that only took in the desired size of the collection, and would implement Iterable. In order to apply this commonality between inplentations in an object-oriented format, I used an abstract base class (MyCollection) that implements Iterable. Furthermore, MyCollection has a constructor that only takes in size, and has all of the methods that the implementations would be using in an abstract form. Even though it was not required by the homework assignment, I also added a method called getMaxSize that returns the maximum size the collection can take (or in other words, the size that was indicated in the constructor). I decided to include this because I felt that even though our assignment does not require that information anywhere, this could be an important unit test to ensure that no weird stuff is happening during the construction of the collection itself. 

I opted to used a LinkedList instead of an ArrayList for the third implementation. LinkedLists are best for adding and removing elements using the iterator, but the data within the LinkedList can only be accessed in sequential order - finding a random position within the list takes time that is proportional to the lists length. ArrayLists are best for random read access, so any element anywhere in the array can be accessed, but adding and removing an element anywhere but the ends requires each element below the element added to be shifted, and can take a lot of time. Furthermore, if more elements are added than the capacity of the array, a new array must be created, all of the items that already exist in this array must be copied, and then the new elements can be added to the bottom. 

Our implentation required adding and removing elements from a collection in order to ensure that it only contains the N most recent elements, so the List that I was using needed to be able to perform those actions efficiently, making LinkedList the obvious choice.
